Disclosure. I am a women. I am a brown woman. I came as an immigrant, but now a Canadian brown woman. And I can keep adding the identities, but for now these are enough for the point I am going to make. I Just attended a webinar hosted by EC Council University on women in Cybersecurity. I have been thinking a lot about what it means to be a 'woman' in cybersecurity. In fact, for that matter, what does it mean when companies say - "we need to fill up the gender gap, or we need more diversity"? Yes, I agree, we do need diversity in all spheres of our lives: in the kind of friends we make, the kind of social gatherings we choose to go to or the people we work with and so on. We do need diverse women. Let's assume, that we reach that utopian point that in terms of numbers we are perfect. But then what? What do we need diverse women in a workspace for? What is their role?

I read this piece https://content.wisestep.com/top-advantages-women-bring-to-the-workplace/ that argues that when more women are part of the workforce, then workplace becomes more flexible. So, what it means is that the care-work is begun to be seen as shared responsibility and not just as something that 'women' do. So the presence of childcare centres in offices, or ATMs in offices are way of showing that men have equal share in household responsibility. The article goes on to discuss the 'communicative' trait of women and how they help in resolving communication issues between non-respondent team members in organisations. It makes sense and I think there's a reason why most women are found in HR departments. Yet, there's something about this that irks me. In a way, it is still essentialising the role of women in work spaces.

I think the fundamental reason why feminist thought (and not just number of women) needs to be part of work culture in any organisation is to empower people to understand the experiences of those different from them to be brought in mainstream and to be made part of the 'normal'. It is normal to be gay. It is normal to be married and choosing not to have kids. It is normal to have chronic health issues and be gay and working in the mainstream. I have often found many women associates of mine behaving and acting with complete lack of understanding and empathy for those experiences that are different from their own. As a women, such parochialism exhibited by many women is unacceptable for me.

As a tech enthusiast and someone who reads (non tech stuff too) I am invested and motivated in creating and expanding spaces where all diverse backgrounds feel included, represented, and heard. For me, diversity is not just having different communities or ethnicities, represented, but rather it is an ongoing practice of diversifying all aspects of the industry, including working styles, partnerships, employee - employer culture etc.

We need diversity to create a meaningful world and meaningful work for everyone.
